[DOCS] Revamped ECS field reference (#1417)
elastic/security-docs: docs/reference/field-ref.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
== Elastic Security ECS field reference

> This section lists ECS fields used by {es-sec} to provide an optimal SIEM and/or security analytics experience to users.  These fields are used to display data, provide rule previews, enable detection by prebuilt detection rules, provide context during rule triage and investigation, escalate to cases, and more.

Reviewer: Sometimes {es-sec} fails to render correctly for some reason, and {elastic-sec} has been more reliable. Also, IMO "and/or" doesn't fit into our typical conversational tone -- just "and" seems fine here.
```suggestion
This section lists ECS fields used by {elastic-sec} to provide an optimal SIEM and security analytics experience to users.  These fields are used to display data, provide rule previews, enable detection by prebuilt detection rules, provide context during rule triage and investigation, escalate to cases, and more.
```

> This section lists ECS fields used by Elastic Security to provide an optimal SIEM and/or security analytics experience to users.  These fields are used to display data, provide rule previews, enable detection by prebuilt detection rules, provide context during rule triage and investigation, escalate to cases, and more.

Author: ```suggestion
This section lists ECS fields used by {es-sec} to provide an optimal SIEM and/or security analytics experience to users.  These fields are used to display data, provide rule previews, enable detection by prebuilt detection rules, provide context during rule triage and investigation, escalate to cases, and more.
```

> This section lists {ecs-ref}[Elastic Common Schema] (ECS) fields used by {elastic-sec} to provide an optimal SIEM and security analytics experience to users.  These fields are used to display data, provide rule previews, enable detection by prebuilt detection rules, provide context during rule triage and investigation, escalate to cases, and more.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section lists {ecs-ref}[Elastic Common Schema] (ECS) fields used by {elastic-sec} to provide an optimal SIEM and security analytics experience to users. These fields are used to display data, provide rule previews, enable detection by prebuilt detection rules, provide context during rule triage and investigation, escalate to cases, and more.
```

> IMPORTANT: We recommend you use {beats} or {agent} integrations to ship your data to {es-sec}. Beat modules(for example, {filebeat-ref}/filebeat-modules.html[{filebeat} modules]) and {agent} integrations are ECS-compliant, which means data they ship to {es-sec} will automatically populate the relevant ECS fields.

Reviewer: Missing space
```suggestion
IMPORTANT: We recommend you use {beats} or {agent} integrations to ship your data to {es-sec}. Beat modules (for example, {filebeat-ref}/filebeat-modules.html[{filebeat} modules]) and {agent} integrations are ECS-compliant, which means data they ship to {es-sec} will automatically populate the relevant ECS fields.
```

> IMPORTANT: We recommend you use {beats} or {agent} integrations to ship your data to {es-sec}. Beat modules (for example, {filebeat-ref}/filebeat-modules.html[{filebeat} modules]) and {agent} integrations are ECS-compliant, which means data they ship to {es-sec} will automatically populate the relevant ECS fields.

Reviewer 2: Seeing that we've been trying to promote Fleet more, it might be better to mention agent integrations first and then Beats. WDYT?

Reviewer 3: ++

> If you plan to use a custom implementation to map your data to {ecs-ref}[ECS fields] (see {ecs-ref}/ecs-converting.html[how to map data to ECS]), you should ensure that at least the "always required fields" below are populated, and ideally that all relevant ECS fields are populated. You can try using the experimental https://github.com/elastic/ecs-mapper[ECS Mapper tool] to create your custom implementation.

Reviewer: There are a lot of links here and above -- it seems like the "ECS fields" link should be in the first paragraph of the page where ECS fields are first mentioned, not a couple of paragraphs in. Also, on that first reference, it'd help to spell out the acronym: "Elastic Common Schema (ECS)".

Author: Good idea 💯

> If you plan to use a custom implementation to map your data to ECS fields (see {ecs-ref}/ecs-converting.html[how to map data to ECS]), you should ensure that at least the "always required fields" below are populated, and ideally that all relevant ECS fields are populated. You can try using the experimental https://github.com/elastic/ecs-mapper[ECS Mapper tool] to create your custom implementation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you plan to use a custom implementation to map your data to ECS fields (see {ecs-ref}/ecs-converting.html[how to map data to ECS]), ensure the <<siem-always-required-fields, always required fields>> are populated; ideally, all relevant ECS fields should be populated as well. You can also try out the experimental https://github.com/elastic/ecs-mapper[ECS Mapper tool] to create your custom implementation.
```

[float]
[[siem-always-required-fields]]
== Always required fields

> {es-sec} requires that all event and threat intelligence data be normalized to Elastic Common Schema.  For proper operation, all data must contain the following ECS fields:

Reviewer: First tweak is just a flow/phrasing thing, take it or leave it. 😄 But for second tweak, common usage seems to be "_the_ Elastic Common Schema."
```suggestion
{es-sec} requires all event and threat intelligence data to be normalized to the Elastic Common Schema.  For proper operation, all data must contain the following ECS fields:
```

> {es-sec} requires all event and threat intelligence data to be normalized to the Elastic Common Schema.  For proper operation, all data must contain the following ECS fields:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{es-sec} requires all event and threat intelligence data to be normalized to ECS.  For proper operation, all data must contain the following ECS fields:
```

* `@timestamp`
* `ecs.version`
* `event.kind`
* `event.category`
* `event.type`

[float]
[[siem-required-process-event-fields]]
== Fields required for process events

> {es-sec} relies on these fields to analyze and display process data in the {es-sec-app}:

Reviewer: Seems a little redundant?
```suggestion
{es-sec} relies on these fields to analyze and display process data:
```

[discrete]
==== Authentication fields

{es-sec} relies on these fields and values to analyze and display host authentication data:

> * `event.category:authentication`:

Reviewer 3: remove trailing ":"

* `event.outcome:success` or `event.outcome:failure`

{es-sec} may also use this field to display additional host authentication data:

* `user.name`

[discrete]
==== Uncommon process fields

> {es-sec} relies on these fields to analyze and display host uncommon process data:

Reviewer 3: "these fields" should be "this field"

* `user.name`

[float]
[[siem-required-network-fields]]
== Fields required for network events
{es-sec} relies on these fields to analyze and display network data:

* `destination.geo.location` (required for display of <<conf-map-ui, map data>>)
* `destination.ip`

> * `source.geo.location` (required for display of map data)

Reviewer: I actually prefer the original here, or maybe:
```suggestion
* `source.geo.location` (required to display map data)
```

[discrete]
==== DNS query fields

{es-sec} relies on these fields to analyze and display DNS data:

* `dns.question.name`
* `dns.question.registered_domain`

> {es-sec} may also use this field to display DNS data in the (es-sec-app):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{es-sec} may also use this field to display DNS data:
```

* `dns.question.type`

+
NOTE: If you want to be able to filter out PTR records, make sure relevant

> events are populated with `dns.question.type:ptr` field values of `PTR`.

Reviewer: You might want to check on this, but this might be redundant, because I think `dns.question.type:ptr` is just another way of writing the pairing of the field `dns.question.type` and the value `ptr` (or `PTR`)? So maybe it could just be this, or something similar:
```suggestion
events are populated with `dns.question.type:ptr`.
```

Author: Thanks, I'll follow up on this.

[discrete]
==== TLS fields

{es-sec} relies on this field to analyze and display TLS data:

* `tls.server.hash.sha1`

{es-sec} may also use these fields to analyze and display TLS data:

* `tls.server.issuer`
* `tls.server.ja3s`
* `tls.server.not_after`
* `tls.server.subject`

[float]
== Fields required for events and external alerts
{es-sec} relies on these fields and values to analyze and display event and external alert data:

* `event.kind`

+

> NOTE: For external alerts, the `event.kind` field's value must be `alert`.

Reviewer 4: Does Security just _rely_ on the `event.kind` field with a value of `alert` and the subsequent fields in the list Security _may_ also use those to analyze and display event and external alert data? Just want to make sure 1) we are accurate and 2) we are not repeating ourselves unnecessarily.
